Lab08: Stored XSS into anchor href attribute with double quotes HTML-encoded

Lv -> APPRENTICE


1) Vuln: SXSS

2) Trust Point: Comment section input fields (Website URL field)

Goal: Execute arbitrary Javascript using a pseudo-protocol handler directly inside the href attribute without breaking out of the attribute boundaries.



3) Assumption:
The application assumes that HTML encoding double qoutes prevents an attacker from escaping the attribute string.



4) Root Cause:
<a href="YOUR_INPUT_HERE">Comment Author Name</a>

The server stores the website parameter and reflects it directly into the href attribute. 
While it prevents attribute breakout by encoding quotes, it completely fails to validate the URL scheme (protocol).



4.1) Mental Map:
HTTP comment POST request (website parameter)
      ↓
Application stores input in database
      ↓
Application renders comment section
      ↓
Input placed inside href="..." attribute
      ↓
Application encodes " characters (breakout blocked)
      ↓
Browser interprets input as URL payload
      ↓
Attacker uses javascript: pseudo-protocol
      ↓
Victim clicks the comment author's name
      ↓
Browser URL handler switches to JavaScript engine
      ↓
alert(1) executes JavaScript



5) Exploit Method:
Inject a malicious script utilizing a URI scheme handler into the Website input field, bypassing the need to break out of the HTML attribute string.

Payload: javascript:alert(1)



6) Impact:
An attacker can execute arbitrary JavaScript in the victim's browser context by hosting a persistent comment that targets any user browsing the website.

This may lead to:
-Persistent session hijacking and credential harvesting
-Defacement of public comment sections via DOM manipulation
-Automated propagation of worms or malicious code to other site visitors
-Forced background state-changing actions on behalf of authenticated users



7) Pattern
Occurs when:
->Attacker-controlled data is accepted as a URL path and mapped directly into structural navigation attributes (href, src, action, formaction).

->The application relies strictly on character filtering or boundary encoding (like neutralizing quotes) instead of implementing a strict URL validation whitelist.

->The application fails to verify that the URL input starts exclusively with safe, explicitly allowed web protocols (such as http:// or https://).



HOW TO CONFIRM
Confirm by:
>Submitting a standard reference URL (e.g., http://example.com) to locate exactly where the value maps to the DOM
>Inspecting the DOM source to verify if the reflection sink is explicitly an anchor (<a>) href attribute
>Testing quotes (") to verify that the application successfully sanitizes and encodes them into &quot;
>Injecting a harmless javascript: URI scheme handler containing a standard execution verification string (e.g., javascript:console.log(1))
>Clicking the resulting rendered element interface to confirm the browser invokes the JavaScript parser engine rather than standard web navigation
